
## States and Behaviors

As mentioned previously, we use classes to create objects.

When defining a class, we typically focus on two things: *states and behaviors*

**State** refers to the data associated to an individual object (which are tracked by instance variables). **Behaviors** are what objects are capable of doing.

For example, using the `GoodDog` class, we may want to create two `GoodDog` objects:
- One named "Fido"
- One name "Sparky"

They are both `GoodDog` objects but may contain different data
- For example, they might contain different names, weight and height.

What do we use to track this information?
- Instance variables
- Instances variables are scoped at the object (or instance) level, and are how objects keep track of their states

Even though "Fido" and "Sparky" are different objects, both are still objects (or instances) of the `GoodDog` class and contain identical behaviors.
- Both objects should be able to bark, run, fetch and perform other common behaviors of good dogs.
- These behaviors are defined as instance methods in a class.
- Instance methods defined in a class are available to objects (or instances) of that class.

To summarize:
- Instance variables keep track of state and are scoped at the object (or instance) level
- Instance methods expose behavior for objects, and are defined in class, where they are made available to objects (or instances) of that class.


## Initializing a New Object

Let's start fresh with the `GoodDog` class, and modify the class by adding an `initialize` method.

```Ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog
	def initialize
		puts "This object was initialized!"
	end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new  # => "This object was initialized!"
```

What's happening here?
- The `initialize` method gets called every time you create a new object. 
	- But the `new` method is called when we created an object, what gives?
		- Calling the `new` class eventually leads us to the `initialize` instance method
		- The difference between class methods and instance methods will be discussed later
- In this example, instantiating the `GoodDog` object `sparky` triggered the `initialize` method, resulting in the output of the string.
- The `initialize` method is referred to as a *constructor*
	- It's a special method that builds the object when a new object is instantiated.
		- It gets triggered by the `new` class method.

## Instance Variables

Let's create a new object and instantiate it with some state, like a name:

```Ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog
	def initialize(name)
		@name = name
	end
end
```

Notice that we're using an **instance variable** here, denoted by the `@` symbol.
- It's a variable that exists as long as the object instance exists
	- It's a way of tying down data to objects
	- It doesn't "die" after the `initialize` method is run.
		- It "lives on" to be referenced until the object instance is destroyed

In the above example, the `initialize` method is defined with a single parameter: `name` 
- Arguments can be passed into the `initialize` method through the `new` method. Let's create an object using the `GoodDog` class:

```ruby
# good_boy.rb

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
```

The string `"Sparky"` is being passed from the `new` method through to the `initialize` method, assigning the string `"Sparky"` to the local instance variable `name` .

Within the constructor (i.e., the `initialize` method), we set the instance variable `@name` to `name` , resulting in assigning the string `"Sparky"` to the `@name` instance variable.

From this example, we can see that instance variables are responsible for keeping track of information about the *state* of an object. Remember that *state* refers to the data associated to an individual object. 
- In the above code, the name of the `sparky` object is the string `"Sparky"`. 
	- The state for the object is tracked in the instance variable `@name` .
	- If we created another `GoodDog` object, the `@name` instance variable for that object would contain whatever name is assigned. For example:

```ruby
# good_dog.rb

fido = GoodDog.new("Fido")
```

The `@name` instance variable for the object `fido` would contain the string `"Fido"` .

Every object has a distinct state, and instance variables are how we keep track of that state. 


## Instance Methods

Let's give our `GoodDog` class some behaviors:

```Ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog
	def initialize(name)
		@name = name
	end

	def speak
		"Arf!"
	end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
puts sparky.speak
```

We should see an output of `"Arf!"` in our program. We told `sparky` to speak and he did (what a good boy!). Now suppose we have another `GoodDog` object:

```ruby
fido = GoodDog.new("Fido")
puts fido.speak # => Arf!
```

Our second object `fido` can also perform `GoodDog` behaviors. 
- Remember, all objects of the same class have the same behaviors
	- Their states however are different, in this case, the name.

What if we wanted to not just say `"Arf!"` , but say `"Sparky says arf!"` ? 
- In our instance methods (which is what all of our methods are so far), we have access to instance variables. 
	- We can use string interpolation and change our `speak` method to this:

```ruby
def speak
	"#{@name} says arf!"
end
```

And now, we can expose information about the state of the object using instance methods.

```ruby
puts sparky.speak    # => "Sparky says arf!"
puts fido.speak      # => "Fido says arf!"
```

## Accessor Methods

What if we wanted to print out only `sparky`'s name? We could try the following code:

```ruby
puts sparky.name
```

However, we get an error:

```ruby
NoMethodError: undefined method `name' for #<GoodDog:0x007f91821239d0 @name="Sparky">
```

This method means that the method we tried calling does not exist, or is unavailable to the object.
- If we want to access the object's name (which is stored in the `@name` instance variable) we have to create a method that will return the name
	- We could call it `get_name` , and it's sole purpose would be to return the value stored in the `@name` instance variable

```ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog
	def initialize(name)
		@name = name
	end

	def get_name
		@name
	end

	def speak
		"#{@name} says arf!"
	end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
puts sparky.speak
puts sparky.name
```

The method `get_name` should return the value of our `@name` instance variable. The code should output the following when ran:

```ruby
"Sparky says arf!"
"Sparky"
```

We now have what's called a *getter* method. 

What if we wanted to change `sparky`'s name?
- This is when we reach for a `setter` method
	- Looks like a `getter` method but with a small difference

```ruby
# good_dog.rb
class GoodDog
	def initialize(name)
		@name = name
	end

	def get_name
		@name
	end

	def set_name=(name)
		@name = name
	end

	def speak
		"#{@name} says arf!"
	end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
puts sparky.speak
puts sparky.get_name
sparky.set_name = "Spartacus"
puts sparky.get_name
```

This outputs: 

```console
Sparky says arf!
Sparky
Spartacus
```

What happened here?
- Using the `setter` method `set_name=` , we have successfully changed `sparky`'s name to the string `"Spartacus"` .

Notice that the `setter` method `set_name=` is given a special syntax to use.
- To use the `set_name=` method normally, we would expect to do this: `sparky.set_name=("Spartacus")` , where the entire "set_name=" is the method name, and the string "Spartacus" is the new argument being passed in to the method.
	- Ruby recognizes this is a `setter` method and allows us to use the more natural assignment syntax:
		- `sparky.set_name = "Spartcus"` 
	- When we see this code, we need to realize there's a `set_name=` method that is working behind the scenes, and we're just seeing some Ruby *syntactical sugar*.

As a convention, Rubyists typically want to name those `getter` and `setter` methods using the same name as the instance variable they are exposing and setting.
- We can make the following change to our code:


```ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end

  def name                  # This was renamed from "get_name"
    @name
  end

  def name=(n)              # This was renamed from "set_name="
    @name = n
  end

  def speak
    "#{@name} says arf!"
  end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
puts sparky.speak           # => "Sparky says arf!"
puts sparky.name            # => "Sparky"
sparky.name = "Spartacus"
puts sparky.name            # => "Spartacus"
```

Note:
- Setter methods ***always return the value that is passed in as an argument***, regardless of what happens within the method
	- If a setter method tries to return something other than the argument's value, it ignores that attempt

```ruby
# good_dog.rb

class Dog
	def name=(n)
		@name = n
		"Laddieboy"      # value will be ignored
	end
end

sparky = Dog.new()
puts (sparky.name = "Sparky") # returns "Sparky"
```

Ruby has a built-in way to automatically create *getter* and *setter* methods, using the **attr_accessor** method. We can refactor our previous code:

```ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog
  attr_accessor :name

  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end

  def speak
    "#{@name} says arf!"
  end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky")
puts sparky.speak
puts sparky.name            # => "Sparky"
sparky.name = "Spartacus"
puts sparky.name            # => "Spartacus"
```

Notice anything?
- The output remains the same

The `attr_accesor` method takes a symbol as an argument and uses it to create the method name for the `getter` and `setter` methods. 
- One line replaced two method definitions

What if we only want the `getter` method without the `setter` method?
- We would want to use the `attr_reader` method.
	- Works the same way but only allows you to retrieve the instance variable

What about we only wanting the `setter` method?
- We can use the `attr_writer` method.

All `attr_*` methods take `Symbol` objects as arguments; if there are more states you're tracking, you can use the following syntax:

```ruby
attr_accessor :name, :height, :weight
```

## Accessor Methods in Action

We have a way to expose and change an object's state with *getter* and *setter* methods. With our current code, the `speak` method referenced the `@name` instance variable:

```ruby
def speak
	"#{@name} says arf!"
end
```

Instead of referencing the instance variable directly, we want to use the `name` getter method that we previously created, and that is now given to us by the `attr_accessor` method. 

We can change the `speak` method like so:

```ruby
def speak
	"#{name} says arf!"
end
```

By removing the `@` symbol, we're now calling the instance method, rather than the instance variable.
- What's the point of doing this?
	- You could just reference the instance variable, but in general it's a good idea to call the `getter` method instead
	- For example, say we're keeping track of social security numbers in an instance variable called `@ssn`, and we don't want to expose the raw data (the entire SSN) in the app
	- When we retrieve it, we only want to display the last 4 digits and mask the rest: "xxxx-xx-1234"
	- If we reference the `@ssn` instance variable directly, we'd need to use code like this in our entirely class

```ruby
# converts '123-45-6789' to 'xxx-xx-6789'
'xxx-xx-' + @ssn.split('-').last
```

But if a bug appears in this code and we need to change the format to something else, it's much easier to reference a `getter` method and make the change in one place

```ruby
def ssn
  # converts '123-45-6789' to 'xxx-xx-6789'
  'xxx-xx-' + @ssn.split('-').last
end
```

What does this enable us to do?
- This allows us to use the `ssn` instance method throughout our class to retrieve the social security number
- This will save us some headaches down the line

We can also do something similar with `setter` methods. 
- Whenever we want to change the instance variable directly in our class, we should instead use the `setter` method

Suppose we added two more states to keep track of in the `GoodDog` class called "height" and "weight":

```ruby
attr_accessor :name, :height, :weight
```

One line of code gives us six `getter/setter` instance methods: `name`, `name=`, `height`, `height=`, `weight`, `weight=`. 

It also gives us three instance variables: `@name`, `@height`, and `@weight`. Now suppose we want to create anew method that allows us to change several states at once

```ruby
def change_info(n, h, w)
	@name = n
	@height = h
	@weight = w
end
```

Our `GoodDog` class now looks like this:

```ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog
  attr_accessor :name, :height, :weight

  def initialize(n, h, w)
    @name = n
    @height = h
    @weight = w
  end

  def speak
    "#{name} says arf!"
  end

  def change_info(n, h, w)
    @name = n
    @height = h
    @weight = w
  end

  def info
    "#{name} weighs #{weight} and is #{height} tall."
  end
end
```

Note the change the `initialize` method and the new method `change_info` . We've also added another method `info` that displays all the states of the object.

We can use the `change_info` method to change the states of an object like so:

```ruby
sparky = GoodDog.new('Sparky', '12 inches', '10 lbs')
puts sparky.info      # => Sparky weighs 10 lbs and is 12 inches tall.

sparky.change_info('Spartacus', '24 inches', '45 lbs')
puts sparky.info      # => Spartacus weighs 45 lbs and is 24 inches tall.
```

Similar to how we replaced accessing instance variables directly with `getter` methods, we can do the same with `setter` methods. We can change the implementation of the `change_info` method like so:

```ruby
def change_info(n, h, w)
	name = n
	height = h
	weight = w
end
```

However there's an issue...
- When we call the `change_info` method, and then call the `info` method, we can see that `sparky`'s states didn't change

```ruby
sparky.change_info('Spartacus', '24 inches', '45 lbs')
puts sparky.info      # => Sparky weighs 10 lbs and is 12 inches tall.
```

Why didn't our `setter` methods work in the `change_info` method?

## Calling Methods with self

The `setter` methods didn't work because Ruby thinks we're initializing local variables. Instead of calling `name=`, `height=`, and `weight=` `setter` methods, we created 3 local variables instead.
- This is not what we wanted to do!

To prevent this from happening, we need to use `self.name=` to let Ruby know that we're calling a method. We can update our `change_info` method to the following:

```ruby
def change_info(n, h, w)
  self.name = n
  self.height = h
  self.weight = w
end
```

This tells Ruby that we're calling a `setter` method, and not initializing local variables. We can use this same syntax for `getter` methods.
- This is not required, but is done for the sake of consistency

```ruby
def info
  "#{self.name} weighs #{self.weight} and is #{self.height} tall."
end
```

By doing this, our `change_info` method should now work:

```ruby
sparky.change_info('Spartacus', '24 inches', '45 lbs')
puts sparky.info      # => Spartacus weighs 45 lbs and is 24 inches tall.
```

Note that prefixing `self.` is not restricted to just the accessor methods; you can use it in any instance method. However, the general rule from the Ruby style guide is to "avoid self where not required".

## Exercises

1. Create a class called `MyCar`. When you initialize a new instance or object of the class, allow the user to define some instance variables that tell us the `year` , `color` , and `model` of the car. Create an instance variable that is set to `0` during instantiation of the object to track the current speed of the car as well. Create instance methods that allow the car to speed up, brake and shut the car off.

```ruby
# my_car.rb

# Exercise 1 Solution (own)

class MyCar
  attr_accessor :year, :color, :model, :speed, :engine_state
  attr_reader :year, :color, :model, :speed, :engine_state

  def initialize(y, c, m)
    @year = y
    @color = c
    @model = m
    @speed = 0
    @engine_state = 'on'
  end

  def speed_up(s)
    self.speed += s
    puts "You step on the gas! Your speed is now #{self.speed} km/h!"
  end

  def slow_down(s)
    self.speed -= s
    puts "You hit the brakes! Your speed is now #{self.speed} km/h!"
  end

  def shut_off
    self.engine_state = 'off'
    "The engine is now off!"
  end

  def turn_on
    self.engine_state = 'on'
    "The engine is now on!"
  end

  def spray_paint(color)
    self.color = color
    puts "Your car color is now #{color}!"
  end
end

  

nicks_car = MyCar.new('Charcoal', '2017', 'Dodge Ram')
nicks_car.spray_paint("Black")
nicks_car.speed_up(60)
nicks_car.speed_up(100)
nicks_car.slow_down(40)

# Exercise 1 solution (LS)

class MyCar
  def initialize(year, model, color)
    @year = year
    @model = model
    @color = color
    @current_speed = 0
  end

  def speed_up(number)
    @current_speed += number
    puts "You push the gas and accelerate #{number} mph."
  end

  def brake(number)
    @current_speed -= number
    puts "You push the brake and decelerate #{number} mph."
  end

  def current_speed
    puts "You are now going #{@current_speed} mph."
  end

  def shut_down
    @current_speed = 0
    puts "Let's park this bad boy!"
  end
end

  

lumina = MyCar.new(1997, 'chevy lumina', 'white')
lumina.speed_up(20)
lumina.current_speed
lumina.speed_up(20)
lumina.current_speed
lumina.brake(20)
lumina.current_speed
lumina.brake(20)
lumina.current_speed
lumina.shut_down
lumina.current_speed
```

2. Add an accessor method to your `MyCar` class to change and view the color of your car. Then add an accessor method that allows you to view, but not modify, the year of your car.

```ruby
  attr_accessor :color
  attr_reader :year
```

3. You want to create a nice interface that allows you to accurately describe the action you want your program to perform. Create a method called `spray_paint` that can be called on an object that will modify the color of the car.

```ruby
  def spray_paint(color)
    self.color = color
    puts "Your car color is now #{color}!"
  end
```
