## Class Methods

All of the methods we've created so far are instance methods
- These are methods that pertain to an instance or object of the class

There are also **class methods**, which can be directly called on the class itself without instantiating any objects.

Let's implement a few using in our `GoodDog` class.

When defining a class method, we prepend the method name with the reserved word `self.` :

```ruby
# good_dog.rb

# previous code omitted for brevity

def self.what_am_i     # Class method definition
	"I'm a GoodDog class!"
end
```

When we call the name, we use the class name followed by the method name
- This is done without even having to instantiate any objects

```ruby
GoodDog.what_am_i      # => I'm a GoodDog class!
```

Why do we need class methods?
- Class methods are where we put functionality that does not pertain to individual objects
- Objects contain state. If we have a method that does not need to deal with states, then we can use a class method

## Class Variables

Just as instance variables capture information related to specific instances of classes (i.e., objects), we can also create variables for an entire class - **class variables**
- These are created using two `@` symbols - `@@this_is_a_class_variable`

Let's create a class variable and a class method that allows us to view that variable

```ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog
	@@number_of_dogs = 0

	def initialize
		@@number_of_dogs += 1
	end

	def self.total_number_of_dogs
		@@number_of_dogs
	end
end

puts GoodDog.total_number_of_dogs # => 0

dog1 = GoodDog.new
dog2 = GoodDog.new

puts GoodDog.total_number_of_dogs # => 2
```

We have now added a class method called `self.total_number_of_dogs` to our `GoodDog` class. Within it we have the class variable `@@number_of_dogs` that has been initialized to `0`. Within our constructor method `initialize`, we increment that number by 1.
- Remember that our constructor method `initialize` gets called every time a new object is instantiated via the `new` method.
- This also shows that we can access class variables from within an instance method (in this case `initialize`)

Our class method `self.total_number_of_dogs` returns the value of the class variable `@@number_of_dogs` .
- This is can example of using a class variable and class method to keep track of a class level detail that pertains only to the class, not to individual objects.

## Constants

When creating classes there may be times where we have certain variables that we never want to change.
- We can do this by creating **constant** variables
- They are defined by using an uppercase letter at the beginning of the variable name
	- While not necessary, it's common practice to make the entire variable name uppercase

```ruby
class GoodDog

	DOG_YEARS = 7

	attr_access :name, :age

	def initialize(n, a)
		self.name = n
		self.age = a * DOG_YEARS
	end
end

sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky", 4)
puts sparky.age   # => 28
```

In this code snippet, we have initialized the constant variable `DOG_YEARS` to the integer `7`. When we instantiate the object `sparky`, we use this constant to calculate the age of the object in dog years. 
- Note that we're using `setter` methods within the `initialize` method definition to initialize the `@name` and `@age` instance variables, which are given to us by the `attr_accessor` method.
- We then use the `age` getter method to retrieve the value from the object.

`DOG_YEARS` is a variable that will never change for any reason, so we use a constant. 

# The `to_s` Method

The `to_s` instance method is built in to every class in Ruby.

```ruby
puts sparky     # => #<GoodDog:0x007fe542323320>
```

The `puts` method automatically calls `to_s` on its argument, which in this case is the `sparky` object. This is the equivalent to `puts sparky.to_s` . 
- By default the `to_s` method returns the name of the object's class and an encoding of the object id.

To test this, we can add a custom `to_s` method to our `GoodDog` class, overriding the default `to_s` that comes with Ruby.

```ruby
class GoodDog
	DOG_YEARS = 7

	attr_accessor :name, :age

	def initialize(n, a)
		self.name = n
		self.age = a * DOG_YEARS
	end

	def to_s
		"This dog's name is #{name} and it is #{age} in dog years."
	end
end
```

We now get a different output when we run it again:

```ruby
puts sparky     # => This dog's name is Sparky and is 28 in dog years.
```

As you can see, we're able to get a different output by overriding the `to_s` instance method.

Another important attribute of the `to_s` method is that it's also automatically called in string interpolation. 
- We have seen this before when using integers or arrays in string interpolation

```ruby
irb :001 > arr = [1, 2, 3]
=> [1, 2, 3]
irb :002 > x = 5
=> 5
irb :003 > "The #{arr} array doesn't include #{x}."
=> The [1, 2, 3] array doesn't include 5.
```

The `to_s` method is automatically called on the `arr` array object, as well as the `x` integer object.

Let's see if we can include the `sparky` object in a string interpolation:

```ruby
"#{sparky}"
# => "This dog's name is Sparky and it is 28 in dog years."
```

In summary, the `to_s` method is called automatically on the object when we use it with `puts` or when used with string interpolation.
- Knowing this information will help us understand how to read and write better OO code.

## More About `self`

Let's dive a little bit deeper on exactly what `self` is and how to understand what it's referencing. `self` can refer to different things depending on where it's used

So far, we have seen two clear uses of self

1. Use `self` when calling setter methods from within the class. In our earlier example, we showed that `self` was necessary in order for our `change_info` method to work properly. We had to use `self` to allow Ruby to disambiguate between initializing a local variable and calling a setter method.
2. Use `self` for class method definitions

Let's play around with `self` to see why the above two rules work. Let's assume the following code:

```ruby
class GoodDog

	attr_accesor :name, :height, :weight

	def initialize(n, h, w)
		self.name = n
		self.height = h
		self.weight = w
	end

	def change_info
		self.name = n
		self.height = h
		self.weight = w
	end

	def info
		"#{self.name} weighs #{self.weight} and is #{self.height} tall."
	end
```

Here, we're using `self` whenever we call an instance method from within the class.
- We know the rule to use `self`, but what does `self` really represent here?
- Let's add one more instance method to help us find out

```ruby
# good_dog.rb

class GoodDog

# ... rest of code omitted for brevity

	def what_is_self
		self
	end
end
```

We can now instantiate a new `GoodDog` object.

```ruby
sparky = GoodDog.new("Sparky", "12 inches", "10 lbs")
p sparky.what_is_self

# => #<GoodDog:0x007f83ac062b38 @name="Sparky", @height="12 inches", @weight="10 lbs">
```

From within the class, when an instance method uses `self`, it references the *calling object*. Therefore, from within the `change_info` method, calling `self.name=` acts the same as calling `sparky.name=` from *outside* the class (you can't call `sparky.name=` inside the class though, since it isn't in scope).
- Now we understand why using `self` to call instance methods from within the class works the way it does.

The other place we use `self` is when we're defining class methods

```ruby
class MyAwesomeClass
	def self.this_is_a_class_method
	end
end
```

When `self` is prepended to a method definition, it is defining a **class method**.

Previously, we defined a class method called `self.total_number_of_dogs` within our `GoodDog` class, which returned the value of our class variable `@@number_of_dogs` .
- How is this possible?
- Let's add a line to our `GoodDog` class:

```ruby
class GoodDog
	# rest of code omitted for brevity
	puts self
end
```

If you run the `good_dog.rb` file with the `GoodDog` class definition, you'll see that `GoodDog` is output.
- Using `self` inside of a class but outside of an instance method refers to the class itself. 
	- Therefore, when a method definition is prefixed with `self`, it is the same as defining the method on the class.
	- `def self.a_method` is the equivalent to `def GoodDog.a_method` 
	- That's why it's a class method; it's actually being defined on the class

To be clear, from within a class...

1. `self` , inside of an instance method, references the instance (object) that called the method - the calling object. Therefore, `self.weight=` is the same as `sparky.weight=` , in our example
2. `self ` , outside of an instance method, references the class and can be used to define class methods. Therefore, if we were to define a `name` class method, `sef self.name=(n)` is the same as `def GoodDog.name=(n) `.

## Summary

In this chapter we covered the following:
- Initializing objects with the new method
- How instance variables keep track of an object's state
- Learning how `attr_*` methods generate `getter` and `setter` methods
- Using instance methods to perform operations on our objects
- Using class methods to perform operations at the class level
- Assigning class variables to relate specifically to our class
- Assigning constants that never change to perform operations in our classes
- How the `to_s` method is used and that we've been using it implicitly all along
- How and when to use `self` 

## Exercises

1. Add a class method to your `MyCar` class that calculates the gas mileage of any car.

```ruby
# My solution
# my_car.rb

  def self.gas_mileage(kms, litres)
    puts "You are currently getting #{kms/litres} kms per litre."
  end

# LS Solution

class MyCar

  # code omitted for brevity...

  def self.gas_mileage(gallons, miles)
    puts "#{miles / gallons} miles per gallon of gas"
  end
end

MyCar.gas_mileage(13, 351)  # => "27 miles per gallon of gas"
```


2. Override the `to_s ` method to create a user friendly print out of your object.

```ruby
# My Solution

  def to_s
    "You have a #{self.year} #{self.color} #{self.model}."
  end

# LS Solution

class MyCar
  # code omitted for brevity...

  def to_s
    "My car is a #{color}, #{year}, #{@model}!"
  end
end

my_car = MyCar.new("2010", "Ford Focus", "silver")
puts my_car  # => My car is a silver, 2010, Ford Focus.

## Note the "puts" calls "to_s" automatically.
```

3. When running the following code...

```ruby
class Person
  attr_reader :name
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end
end

bob = Person.new("Steve")
bob.name = "Bob"
```

We get the following error...

```ruby
test.rb:9:in `<main>': undefined method `name=' for
  #<Person:0x007fef41838a28 @name="Steve"> (NoMethodError)
```

Answer:

We get this error because the `attr_reader` method only has the ability to expose the information with the instance variables, not modify them. If we wanted to modify the data within the variables, we need to use the `attribute_accessor` method which allows us to modify them.

LS Answer:

We get this error because `attr_reader` only creates a getter method. When we try to reassign the name instance variable to `"Bob"`, we need a setter method called `name=`. We can get this by changing `attr_reader` to `attr_accessor` or `attr_writer` if we don't intend to use the getter functionality.