
There is no rigid standard all programmers agree on when it comes to the nomenclature of OOP
- Some terms have different meanings and contexts
	- Often difficult to provide definitive definitions

For example, the term 'attribute'
- In general, we can think of attributes as the characteristics that make up an object.
- For example, we have the class `Laptop ` 
	- This might include the following attributes:
		- `make ` 
		- `color ` 
		- `dimensions ` 
		- `display ` 
		- `processor ` 
		- `storage` 
		- ... etc.
- In general, those attributes can be accessed and manipulated outside of the object.
- When talking about attributes we might also be referring to just the characteristic names, or the names *and* values attributed to the object
	- The meaning is typically clear from context.

How are attributes implemented?
- Depends on the programming language
	- In some languages, there is a clear and definitive way to define attributes.
	- E.g., in JavaScipt, attributes can be defined by setting the property of an object

```javascript
let laptop = {
	memory: '8GB',
}

laptop.memory; // '8GB'
laptop.memory = '16GB';
laptop.memory; // '16GB'
```

But what about Ruby?
- Getting the same effect is a more involved process
	- Involves initializing instance variables and defining setter and getter methods that 'wrap' the instance variable.

```ruby
class Laptop
	def initialize(memory)
		@memory = memory
	end

	def memory
		@memory
	end

	def memory=(memory)
		@memory = memory
	end
end

laptop = Laptop.new('8GB')
laptop.memory # '8GB'
laptop.memory = '16GB'
laptop.memory # '16GB'
```

Defining attributes in this strict manner (i.e., instance variables with accessor methods) can lead to subtle complications.
- For example, is an attribute still an attribute if the accessor methods are private?
	- What if there is a setter but no getter? (Or vice versa?)
	- What if there are no `attr_*` methods at all?

Because of these issues, the term 'attribute' is used loosely in LS text and/or other literature.
- It's generally approximated as *instance variables*.
	- These instance variables usually have accessor methods (because objects that are entirely secretive aren't very useful)
		- But it isn't a must for the purposes of this definition

When LS says that classes define the attributes of its objects, they're referring to how classes specify the names of the instance variables each object should have (i.e., what the object should be made of)
- The classes also define the accessor methods and level of method access control.
	- In general though, they're just pointing to the instance variables.

When LS says state tracks attributes for individual objects, the purpose is to say that an object's state is composed of instance variables and their values
- Not referring to getter and setter methods.

For our mental model:
- Think of attributes in the context of Ruby as instance variables (that usually have accessor methods).