
# Polymorphism

**Polymorphism** refers to the ability of different object types to respond to the same method invocation, often, but not always, in different ways.
- Data of different types can respond to a common interface
- This is a crucial concept in OO programming that can lead to more maintainable code

When two or more object types have a method with the same name, we can invoke that method with any of those objects.
- When we don't care what type of object is calling the method, we're using polymorphism.
- Polymorphism often involves inheritance from a common superclass
	- Not always necessary

Assume we have a method that expects an argument that has a `move ` method.
- We can pass it any type of argument, provided it has a compatible `move ` method.
	- The object might represent a human, a cat, a jellyfish, or even a car or train
- It lets objects of different types respond to the same method invocation

There are two chief way to implement polymorphism.

###### Polymorphism through inheritance

Example:

```ruby
class Animal
  def move
  end
end

class Fish < Animal
  def move
    puts "swim"
  end
end

class Cat < Animal
  def move
    puts "walk"
  end
end

# Sponges and Corals don't have a separate move method - they don't move
class Sponge < Animal; end
class Coral < Animal; end

animals = [Fish.new, Cat.new, Sponge.new, Coral.new]
animals.each { |animal| animal.move }
```

Here we have an array `animals ` containing 4 objects instantiated to different classes, `Fish ` , `Cat ` , `Sponge ` and `Coral ` .
- However, the client code -- the code that uses those objects - doesn't care what each object is.
	- Only cares that each object in the `animals ` has a move method that doesn't require any arguments.
		- Every generic animal object implements some form of locomotion, though some animals don't move
- The interface for this class hierarchy lets us work with all of those types in the same way even though the implementations might be dramatically different
	- This is polymorphism

When we run the above code, we invoke the `move ` method for each of the 4 animals.
- The `Sponge ` and `Coral ` classes don't have a `move ` method within their own class
	- They inherit the method from the `Animal ` superclass
	- When `move ` is called on a `Sponge ` or `Coral ` object, it's calling `move ` from the `Animal` superclass.
		- This method does nothing, so the objects don't move
		- This is polymorphism through inheritance -- instead of providing our own behavior for the `move ` method, we're using inheritance to acquire the behavior of a superclass
- For `Fish ` objects, `move ` is called from within the `Fish ` class
	- This enables the fish to swim
- The same thing occurs for the `Cat ` class, the `move ` method within `Cat ` is called
	- This enables the cat to walk
	- This is an example of polymorphism, where two different objects can respond to the same method call by **overriding** a method that was inherited from a superclass.
		- Overriding is generally treated as an aspect of inheritance, so this is polymorphism through inheritance

With this example, we can see that all the objects within the `animals ` array are different animals, but the client code can treat them all as a generic animal.
- i.e., an object that can move

As a result, the pubic interface lets us work with all of these types in the same way, even though the implementations can be very different
- This is polymorphism in action

###### Polymorphism through duck typing

**Duck typing** occurs when objects of different *unrelated* types both respond to the same method name.
- There is no concern with the class or type of object, but rather concern for whether an object has a particular behavior
	- If an object quacks like a duck, we treat it like a duck
- Duck typing is a form of polymorphism
	- As long as the objects involved use the same method name and take the same number of arguments, we can treat the object as belonging to a specific category of objects

For example, an application may have a variety of elements that can respond to a mouse click by calling a method named `handleClick`
- The elements may be completely different (i.e., a checkbox vs. a text input field), but they're all clickable objects

Duck typing is an informal way to classify or ascribe a type to objects.
- Classes provide a more formal way to do so

In this next example, we have a `Wedding ` class with several 'preparer' subclasses. This example attempts to implement polymorphic behavior without using duck typing; it shows you how you **shouldn't** do it!

```ruby
class Wedding
	attr_reader :guests, :flowers, :songs

	def prepare(preparers)
		prepares.each do |preparer|
			case preparer
			when Chef
				preparer.prepare_food(guests)
			when Decorator
				preparer.decorate_place(flowers)
			when Musician
				preparer.prepare_performance(songs)
			end
		end
	end
end

class Chef
	def prepare_food(guests)
		# implementation
	end
end

class Decorator
	def prepare_place(flowers)
		# implementation
	end
end

class Musician
	def prepare_performance(songs)
		# implementation
	end
end
```

There is a problem with this approach
- The prepare method has too many dependencies; it relies on specific classes and their names
	- Also needs to know which method it should call on each of the objects, as well as the argument that those methods require
	- If anything is changed within those classes that impact `Wedding#prepare ` , you need to refactor the method
		- i.e., if we need to add another wedding preparer, we need to add another `case ` statement

We can refactor this code to implement polymorphism with duck typing:

```ruby
class Wedding
  attr_reader :guests, :flowers, :songs

  def prepare(preparers)
    preparers.each do |preparer|
      preparer.prepare_wedding(self)
    end
  end
end

class Chef
  def prepare_wedding(wedding)
    prepare_food(wedding.guests)
  end

  def prepare_food(guests)
    #implementation
  end
end

class Decorator
  def prepare_wedding(wedding)
    decorate_place(wedding.flowers)
  end

  def decorate_place(flowers)
    # implementation
  end
end

class Musician
  def prepare_wedding(wedding)
    prepare_performance(wedding.songs)
  end

  def prepare_performance(songs)
    #implementation
  end
end
```

There is no inheritance in this example, however each of the preparer-type classes provides a `prepare_wedding ` method. 
- We still have polymorphism since all of the objects respond to the `prepare_wedding ` method call
- If we need to add another preparer type, we can create another class and implement the `prepare_wedding ` method to perform the appropriate actions.

Side note:
- Having two different objects that have a method with the same name and compatible arguments doesn't mean we have polymorphism
	- It doesn't always make sense
- Consider the following example:

```ruby
class Circle
  def draw; end
end

class Blinds
  def draw; end
end
```

Both of these classes have a method named `draw ` , and they both take no arguments. So why wouldn't this be polymorphism?
- The `Circle ` class `draw ` method presumably draws a circle to the screen, and the `Blinds ` draw method presumably draws the window blinds.
	- While we could use the following example polymorphically like so:
```ruby
[Circle.new, Blinds.new].each { |obj| obj.draw }
```
- It wouldn't make sense in real code
	- In practice, polymorphic methods are intentionally designed to be polymorphic; if there is no intention, you shouldn't use them polymorphically

## Encapsulation

Recall that encapsulation lets us hide the internal representation of an object from the outside, and only expose the methods and properties that users of the object need.
- *Method access control* is used to expose these properties, and methods through the public (or external) interface of a class: its public methods

Example:

```ruby
class Dog
  attr_reader :nickname

  def initialize(n)
    @nickname = n
  end

  def change_nickname(n)
    self.nickname = n
  end

  def greeting
    "#{nickname.capitalize} says Woof Woof!"
  end

  private
    attr_writer :nickname
end

dog = Dog.new("rex")
dog.change_nickname("barny") # changed nickname to "barny"
puts dog.greeting # Displays: Barny says Woof Woof!
```

In this example, we can change the nickname of a dog by calling the `change_name ` method, without needing to now how the `Dog ` class and this method are implemented.

The same thing happens when we call the method `greeting ` on a `Dog ` object.
- The output is `"Barny says Woof Woof!" ` , with the dog's nickname being capitalized.
	- Again, we don't need to know how the method is implemented
		- The main point is that we expect a greeting message from the dog and that's what we get

Note that the `setter ` method for `nickname ` is private.
- Its not available outside of the class and `dog.nickname = "barny" ` would raise an error.

You might have noticed that the `setter ` method for `nickname ` is private, yet we are still calling it with `self ` prepended on line `9 ` , `self.nickname = n ` .
- This is an exception in Ruby
	- Need to use `self ` when calling private setter methods, otherwise Ruby thinks we are creating a local variable

Always keep in mind, a class should have as few public methods as possible.
- This lets us simplify using that class and protect data from undesired changes from the outer world.