
Recall that classes group common behaviors and objects encapsulate state.
- An object's state is stored in it's instance variables
	- Instance methods can operate on these variables
	- The state is usually a string or a number
		- For example, a `Person ` object's `name ` attribute can be assigned to a `@name ` instance variable as a `String` 

Example:

```ruby
class Person
	def initialize(name)
		@name = name
	end

	def name
		@name
	end
end

joe = Person.new('Joe')
joe.name #   => 'Joe'
```

Here we are instantiating the object `joe ` to the class `Person ` . We're passing in the string `"Joe"` as an argument, which gets assigned to the instance variable `@name ` .

Instance variables can also hold data structures such as arrays or hashes.

Example:

```ruby
class Person
  def initialize
    @heroes = ['Superman', 'Spiderman', 'Batman']
    @cash = {'ones' => 12, 'fives' => 2, 'tens' => 0, 'twenties' => 2, 'hundreds' => 0}
  end

  def cash_on_hand
    # this method will use @cash to calculate total cash value
    # we'll skip the implementation
  end

  def heroes
    @heroes.join(', ')
  end
end

joe = Person.new
joe.cash_on_hand            # => "$62.00"
joe.heroes                  # => "Superman, Spiderman, Batman"
```

From this example, we can see that we can use any object to represent the state of an object.
- Instance variables can be set to any object, even an object of a custom class we've created
- For example, say we have a `Person ` that has a `Pet ` , our class could look like this:

```ruby
class Person
	attr_accessor :name, :pet

	def initialize(name)
		@name = name
	end
end

bob = Person.new("Robert")
bud = Bulldog.new        # assume bulldog class from previous assignment
bob.pet = bud
```

The last line is something we haven't seen yet, but is something that is valid in OO code
- We have essentially set `bob ` 's `@pet ` instance variable to `bud ` , which is a `Bulldog ` object.
	- When we call `bob.pet` , it is returning a `Bulldog ` object

```ruby
bob.pet                       # => #<Bulldog:0x007fd8399eb920>
bob.pet.class                 # => Bulldog
```

Since `bob.pet ` returns a `Bulldog ` object, we can then chain any `Bulldog ` methods at the end as well

```ruby
bob.pet.speak        # => "bark!"
bob.pet.fetch        # => "fetching!"
```

Objects that are stored as state within another object are also called **"collaborator objects"**.
- They're called collaborators because they work in conjunction (or in collaboration) with the class they are associated with.

For instance, `bob ` has a collaborator objected stored in the `@pet ` instance variable.
- When we need that `Bulldog ` object to perform some action (i.e. we want access to some behavior of `@pet ` ), then we can go through `bob ` and call the method on the object stored in `@pet ` , such as `speak ` or `fetch ` .

When we work with collaborator objects, they are usually custom objects (e.g. defined by the programmer and not inherited from the Ruby core library); `@pet ` is an example of a custom object.
- Collaborator objects aren't strictly custom objects
	- Even the string object stored in `@name ` within `bob ` is technically a collaborator object

Collaborator objects play an important role in object oriented design, since they also represent the connections between various actors in your program
- When working on an OOP program, be sure to consider what collaborators your classes will have, and if those associations make sense (both from a technical standpoint and in terms of modeling the problem your program aims to solve)

Let's develop our program some more and change the implementation a bit to allow a person to have many pets
- How should we implement this?
	- We could use an array of `Pet ` objects

```ruby
class Person
  attr_accessor :name, :pets

  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
    @pets = []
  end
end

bob = Person.new("Robert")

kitty = Cat.new
bud = Bulldog.new

bob.pets << kitty
bob.pets << bud

bob.pets                      # => [#<Cat:0x007fd839999620>, #<Bulldog:0x007fd839994ff8>]
```

Within this array, our first element is a `Cat ` object, and our second element is a `Bulldog ` object. 
- However, because `pets ` is an array, we cannot call `Pet ` methods on `pets ` .

```ruby
bob.pets.jump      # => NoMethodError gets thrown
```

We could use the `each ` method however, and call the `jump ` method on the `Pet ` objects within the array. 

```ruby
bob.pets.each do |pet|
	pet.jump
end
```

## Summary

When working with collaborator objects in our class, we could be working with any type of object, including custom objects.
- Collaborator objects allow you to chop up and modularize the problem domain in cohesive pieces
	- They are at the core of OO programming and play an important role in modeling complicated problem domains