### Explore the problem before design.

It can be very difficult to come up with the "right" classes and methods when first approaching a problem.
- Need to take time to explore the problem domain with a **spike**-exploratory code to play around with the problem.
	- Spikes can help validate initial hunches and hypotheses.
	- You don't have to worry about code quality, because the idea of a spike is to throw away the code
	- If you were writing an essay, the spike would be the initial brain dump of ideas
		- As you start to understand the problem better and get a feel for possible solutions, start to organize your code into coherent classes and methods.

### Repetitive nouns in method names is a sign that you're missing a class

For example, in our RPS game, if we find ourselves constant referring to a "move", it may be a sin that we should encapsulate logic into a `Move ` class. Suppose we had the following code and `move ` is a string or integer (ie, not a custom object):

```ruby
human.make_move
computer.make_move

puts "Human move was #{format_move(human.move)}."
puts "Computer move was #{format_move(computer.move)}."

if compare_moves(human.move, computer.move) > 1
  puts "Human won!"
elsif compare_moves(human.move, computer.move) < 1
  puts "Computer won!"
else
  puts "It's a tie!"
end
```

The `format_move ` helper method formats the move in our output, because we don't have an object that we can tell to "format yourself for output". 

We also need a `compare_moves ` helper method because the moves don't know how to compare themselves with each other.

All these references to "move" gives us a hint that we should be encapsulating the move into a custom move object, so that we can tell the object to "format yourself" or "compare yourself against another".

This is how the code could possibly be improved:

```ruby
human.move!
computer.move!

puts "Human move was #{human.move.display}."
puts "Computer move was #{computer.move.display}."

if human.move > computer.move
  puts "Human won!"
elsif human.move < computer.move
  puts "Computer won!"
else
  puts "It's a tie!"
end
```

The logic that used to be in helper methods are now in the appropriate class: `Move#display ` and the comparison methods `Move#< ` and `Move#> `.

### When naming methods, don't include the class name

A lot of beginners will write methods like this:

```ruby
class Player
	def player_info
		# returns player's name, move and other data
	end
end
```

But the `player_info ` method is poorly named, because we could have code that ends up looking like this:

```ruby
player1 = Player.new
player2 = Player.new

puts player1.player_info
puts player2.player_info
```

This code reads more fluently if the method name is switched to `info `, which would read like this:

```ruby
player1 = Player.new
player2 = Player.new

puts player1.info
puts player2.info
```

While not always the case, we should leave off the class name in the method definition name. Remember to always think about the method's usage or *interface* when defining methods.
- Pick naming conventions that are consistent, easy to remember, give an idea of what the method does, and reads well at invocation time.

### Avoid long method invocation chains

When working with OO code, it can be tempting to keep calling methods on collaborator objects:

```ruby
human.move.display.size
```

Chaining methods like this makes the code very fragile. If `human.move ` were to return `nil ` , the entire method invocation chain would blow up, and it would be hard to debug the error.
- We would have to individually check each method call to see where the `nil ` return is coming from, find out why it's returning `nil ` and then make the necessary fix.

We need to develop the initial instinct to smell out code that contains long method invocation chains, and try to think about the possibility of `nil ` or other unexpected return values in the middle of the chain.

### Avoid design patterns for now

One of the biggest mistakes beginner programmers make is mis-application of "best practices" or "design patterns" to improve performance or flexibility. 
- This is such a common phenomenon that experienced programmers have a quote: "premature optimization is the root of all evil".

Don't worry about optimization at this point. Don't write overly clever code.
- You won't know what's considered "clever" vs "normal" without reading a lot of code
- Will hone your senses over time