
You should always examine any complexity complaints that Rubocop issues, and in most cases, refactor the code to simplify it.

Rubocop does a good job of recognizing overly complex methods, so pay attention - your programs and skills will benefit.
- Remember that the goal is to write code that is is simple, easy to read, easy to maintain, and works.
- There will be times when fixing a complexity complaint can lead to code that is harder to read or maintain, is more complex at a conceptual level, or no longer works
- For example, in the RPS Bonus Features assignment from RB101, we disabled the AbcSize COP on the `#board ` method since doing anything there would have been counterproductive.

Most complexity complaints can be resolved by refactoring the method: identify and remove repetitive code or break it down into smaller logical tasks.
- This approach works well in most cases
- But, with AbcSize COPs, refactoring can be harder than you might think

Before tackling an AbcSize complain, we should first identify the characteristics of the method that triggered the complaint.
- To do that we need to know how to calculate the AbcSize for a method

**Note:

You don't have to memorize this information. Bookmark it so you can refer to it the next time you can an AbcSize complaint.

The AbcSize COP code is a complexity warning that counts the assignments, branches (aka, method calls) and conditions in a method, then reduces those numbers to a single value - a metric - that describes the complexity (the larger the AbcSize, the more complex the code).

To derive this metric, Rubocop counts the assignments (call this value `a ` ), branches (`b ` ) and conditions (`c ` ) in your method. It then computes the result using the formula:

```
abc_size = Math.sqrt(a**2 + b**2 + c**2)
```

If the resulting value is greater than 18 (the default), Rubocop flags the method as too complex.

If your code has six assignments, 16 branches (method calls), and seven conditions, then the AbcSize is `Math.sqrt(6**2 + 16 ** 2 + 7 ** 2) ` , or 18.47 -- which is a hair over the trigger level of 18.
- The goal would be to change that number to something less than 18.
	- Need to reduce one or more of these components

**Hint:

Focus on the component with the greatest count - reducing the occurrences of the most frequent type has the most effect on the computed AbcSize. In the example above, we chose to focus on reducing branches since we have more branches than either assignments or conditions.

The tricky part about this formula is counting the different items.

Counting assignments - almost anything that looks like `variable = some_expression ` is an assignment. 
- As is `variable += some_expression ` , `variable -= some_expression ` , and so on.
You can often reduce assignments in your method by looking for repetitive assignments, or by removing intermediate values (be careful not to reduce readability)

Counting conditions - a condition is any point in the code where execution can take 2 or more different paths: any code that tests the truthiness of an expression to determine what the program should do.

Example:

```ruby
if a == 1
	do this
elsif b == 2 || c.empty?
	do that
end
puts final_result
```

This example contains 3 conditions: `a == 1 ` , `b == 2 ` and `c.empty? ` .

What's the most effective way to reduce the condition count?
- Refactor repetitive conditions and complicated conditional expressions.
	- The latter is as simple as giving a condition a name and putting it in a method. For example, rewrite the following:

```ruby
if move1 == "rock" && (move2 == scissors || move 2 == "lizard")
```

to:

```ruby
def rock_wins?(moev1, move2)
	move1 == "rock" && (move2 = "scissors" || move2 == "lizard")
end

if rock_wins?(move1, move2)...
```

This replaced three conditions with one condition and one branch.

Counting branches/method calls - This can be tricky. Ruby hides a lot of method calls behind syntax. 
- For example `a[3] ` is a method call.

Many Ruby operators are methods in disguise, such as `+ `, `* `, `== ` , `> ` etc.
- These all contribute to the branch count

We must also be aware that although something like `hash[key] = value ` is a method call, Rubocop appears to count this as assignment.

Also, nearly every statement in Ruby involves a method call. `puts ` is a method. `Array#each ` is a method. `loop ` is a method. These all add up and contribute to the number of branches.

We must also contend with getters and setters: **every reference to a getter or setter method in your class is a method call.**

```ruby
class Example
  attr_reader :something
  
  def initialize
    @something = [...]
  end
  
  def print_something
    if something.size == 1
      puts "something has just 1 item: #{something[0]}"
    elsif something.size == 2
      puts "something has 2 items: #{something[0]} #{something[1]}"
    else
      puts "something has #{something.size} items: #{something.join(' ')}"
    end
  end
end
```

This code will trigger the AbcSize COP due to the `print_something ` method.
- This is primarily due to the number of branches

Within the `print_something ` method definition, we call the `something ` getter method 7 times. We're also calling the `#== ` method twice, `puts` three times, `#size ` three times, and `#join ` once.
- 19 total branches plus two conditions

A simple fix here would be to remove the `something ` getter method calls and replace them with the `@something ` instance variable to access the data directly.
- Can also save `something ` to a local variable and using that instead of the getter method
- Using `@something ` eliminates 7 method calls, while assigning a `something ` to `value ` removes 6 method calls and adds 1 variable assignment.
	- The end result is the same -- reduced AbcSize Size metric

We can also silence the AbcSize violation for `print_something ` . Is this worth the effort though?

One can argue that the change isn't an improvement, so you're writing code to keep Rubocop happy rather than writing exemplary code.

Others will argue that making this change is a small tradeoff for eliminating the Rubocop complaint and saving future developers from having to make their own determination.
- The right answer is up to you, but don't ignore Rubocop because you don't want to deal with it or can't see any easy solution.
- Make a decision on whether the refactored code is better than the original

The point here is that, when faced with an AbcSize complain, you should:

1. Try to simplify your code
2. Examine the results
3. Use your best judgement