#### Approach to OOP

The classical approach to object oriented programming is:

1.  Write a textual description of the problem or exercise.
2.  Extract the major nouns and verbs from the description.
3.  Organize and associate the verbs with the nouns.
4.  The nouns are the classes and the verbs are the behaviors or methods.

Notice that in OO, we don't think about the game flow logic at all. It's all about organizing and modularizing the code into a cohesive structure - classes. After we come up with the initial class definitions, the final step is to orchestrate the flow of the program using objects instantiated from the classes. We won't worry about that final step yet.

Let's use the above approach and first write out a textual description of Rock, Paper and Scissors.

```
Rock, Paper, Scissors is a two-player game where each player chooses
one of three possible moves: rock, paper, or scissors. The chosen moves
will then be compared to see who wins, according to the following rules:

- rock beats scissors
- scissors beats paper
- paper beats rock

If the players chose the same move, then it's a tie.
```

Let's try and extract the major nouns:

1. player
2. move
3. rule

Now the major verbs:

1. compare
2. choose

Notice that we don't include rock, paper, or scissors as part of our major nouns.
- These can be grouped as a part of moves
	- Players choose a move

Now we must organize the nouns with the verbs.

```
Player
- choose
Move
Rule

- compare
```

Here, a player can "choose". But, we don't have any associated verbs with the nouns "move" and "rule" and we're unsure where to place "compare".
- We'll have to try and define our classes with this

Let's code up some classes and methods while also thinking about "states" the objects of these classes should have.

```ruby
class Player
  def initialize
    # maybe a "name"? what about a "move"?
  end

  def choose

  end
end

class Move
  def initialize
    # seems like we need something to keep track
    # of the choice... a move object can be "paper", "rock" or "scissors"
  end
end

class Rule
  def initialize
    # not sure what the "state" of a rule object should be
  end
end

# not sure where "compare" goes yet
def compare(move1, move2)

end
```

This is the initial skeleton of classes and methods we're going to start with. This is the initial rough napkin modeling of the problem.
- A lot of unanswered questions at this point


#### Orchestration Engine

After we're done organizing nouns and verbs into classes, we need an "engine" of some sort to orchestrate the objects. This is where the procedural program flow should be. Let's call the "engine" class `RPSGame`. We want an easy interface to kick things off, so perhaps to play the game, we just instantiate an object and call a method called `play`, like this:

Given this interface, we can try and define the class:

```ruby
class RPSGame
	def initialize

	end
	
	def play

	end
```

Starting from that skeleton, we can start to think about the objects that are required in the `play ` method to facilitate the game

```ruby
def play
  display_welcome_message
  human_choose_move
  computer_choose_move
  display_winner
  display_goodbye_message
end
```

Lines 3 and 4 look similar, and it also looks like there's a redundant "choose_move" part. This ties into our `Player` class, which has a `choose` method. What if "human" and "computer" were both objects of the `Player` class? They'd both immediately have the `Player#choose` method. With that insight, we update the `RPSGame` class definition:

```ruby
class RPSGame
  attr_accessor :human, :computer

  def initialize
    @human = Player.new
    @computer = Player.new
  end

  def play
    display_welcome_message
    human.choose
    computer.choose
    display_winner
    display_goodbye_message
  end
end
```

The objects are starting to take shape. We still need to figure out how to use the `Move ` class and the `Rule ` class. We may not even need those classes at all.

### Summary

This assignment has given us an outline of how to approach solving a problem with an OO mindset.

One of the hardest things to understand about OOP is that there is not "right" solution.
- In OOP, it's all a matter of tradeoffs.
- However, there are wrong approaches. Our goal for now is to avoid the wrong approaches and understand the core concepts.
	- Don't worry about finding the most optimal architecture or design.
		- Object oriented design and architecture is a large topic, and it will take years to master that