
> Disclaimer:
> 
> No matter how often we hear the phrase *"everything is an object"*, we need to keep in mind that this isn't strictly true. In Ruby there are things that are not objects -- methods, blocks and *if* statements are some examples. 

Testing for equivalence in Ruby is complicated.
- A string is equal to another string of the same value. An integer is equal to another integer of the same value. A symbol is equal to another symbol of the same value.

```ruby
str1 = "something"
str2 = "something"
str1 == str2            # => true

int1 = 1
int2 = 1
int1 == int2            # => true

sym1 = :something
sym2 = :something
sym1 == sym2            # => true
```

This example is straightforward. However, complications arise when we consider that *everything is an object*. What are we comparing above when we're using the `== ` equality comparison operator?

Consider that a string literal is an an object of the `String ` class.

```ruby
str1 = "something"
str2 = "something"

str1.class # => String
str2.class # => String
```

This means that if we modify `str1 ` it wouldn't have an effect on  the `str2 ` object.
- This is because they're different objects (but still instantiated from the same class)

So again, what is it being compared when we're comparing `str1 ` with `str2 ` ?
- We're comparing the values within the objects
	- Essentially, we're asking "are the values within the objects the same?", not "are the objects the same?"

The `== ` operator knows we're asking the first question (in the case of `String ` objects). What if we wanted to ask the second question and compare the objects themselves?
- For this we can use the `equal? ` method.

```ruby
str1 = "something"
str2 = "something"
str1_copy = str1

# comparing the string objects' values
str1 == str2            # => true
str1 == str1_copy       # => true
str2 == str1_copy       # => true

# comparing the actual objects
str1.equal? str2        # => false
str1.equal? str1_copy   # => true
str2.equal? str1_copy   # => false
```

What do you notice about this code snippet?
- When using the `== ` operator to compare `str1 ` and `str2 `, it returns `true ` as expected, as the values stored in the variables are the same.
- When using the `#equal? ` method, it's returning `false ` when passing in `str2 ` as an argument, and returning `true ` when passing `str1_copy ` as an argument.
	- This method checks to see if the two objects are the same. But why does `str1.equal? str2 ` return `false ` if both reference `"something" ` ?
		- Because `str1 ` and `str2 ` both reference a different object at a different space in memory
		- In order for it to be the exact same object, both must reference the same object at the same space in memory.

```ruby
str1 = "something"
str2 = "something"
str3 = str1

p str1.equal?(str2) #    => false
p str1.equal?(str3) #    => true
```

`str1 ` is "equal" to `str3 ` because both are referencing the same object at the same space in memory.
- To confirm this we can check the `object_id ` of each object.

```ruby
p str1.object_id   #  => 60
p str2.object_id   #  => 80
p str3.object_id   #  => 60
```

`str1 ` and `str2 ` both point to the same space in memory, while `str2 ` doesn't, even though it has the same *value*. 

To summarize, the `== ` method compares the two variables' values, whereas the `#equal? ` method determines whether the two variables point to the same object at the same space in memory.
- This begs the question "how does `== ` know which value to use to compare?"

#### The `==` method

The answer is that ` == ` is not an operator (in Ruby) like the ` = ` assignment operator.
- It's actually an instance method available on all objects
- ` == ` is given a special syntax to make it look like a normal operator
- Instead of ` str1.==(str2) ` , we can use ` str1 == str2 ` , which is a more natural syntax. Both of these function the same.
- This allows us to write more naturally, but the tradeoff is that it makes deciphering code difficult for beginners who aren't yet familiar with the syntax

Since ` == ` is an instance method that is defined in the ` BasicObject ` class (a parent class for *all* classes in Ruby), the answer to "how does ` == ` know what value to use for comparison" is: it's determined by the class.
- This implies that *every object* in Ruby has a ` == ` method (if ` BasicObject ` is a parent class for all classes, that means all classes inherit this method).
	- Each class should define their own ` == ` method to specify the value to compare

Let's look at an example. Say we have a ` Person ` class:

```ruby
class Person
	attr_accessor :name
end

bob = Person.new
bob.name = "bob"

bob2 = Person.new
bob2.name = "bob"

bob == bob2       # => false

bob_copy = bob
bob == bob_copy   # => true
```

This implies that the default implementation for ` == ` is the same as ` equal? ` (which is also in the ` BasicObject ` class)
- Not very useful, because when we use ` == `, we don't actually want to ask "are the two variables pointing to the same object?", and instead we want to ask "are the values in the two variables the same?".
- To tell Ruby what "the same" means for a ` Person ` object, we need to define the ` == ` method.

```ruby
class Person
	attr_accessor :name

	def ==(other)
		name == other.name   # relying on String#== here
	end
end

bob = Person.new
bob.name = "bob"

bob2 = Person.new
bob2.name = "bob"

bob == bob2   # => true
```

By defining a ` == ` method in the ` Person ` class, we're overriding the default ` BasicObject#== ` behavior, and providing a way to compare the values of the ` Person ` objects, not the objects themselves.

Note that the ` Person#== ` method we just wrote uses the ` String#== ` method for comparison. Almost every Ruby core library class will come with it's own ` == ` method.
- We can safely use ` == ` to compare ` Array ` , ` Hash ` , ` Integer ` , ` String ` and many other objects.
	- Must remember that there is a method somewhere backing that equality comparison, and so it can be modified by defining it in our class definition.

Another note: when you define a ` == ` method, you also get a ` != ` method as well.

#### ` object_id ` 

Another method that's available to every object is the ` object_id ` method.
- This method returns a numerical value that uniquely identifies the object and the space in memory it occupies.
- Can be used to determine whether two variables are pointing to the same object.

Example:

```ruby
str1 = "something"
str2 = "something"

str1.object_id # => 60
str2.object_id # => 80
```

From this example, we can see that while ` str1 ` and ` str2 ` have the same value, they are both different objects.
- We can use this method to compare the object ids of various objects

```ruby
arr1 = [1, 2, 3]
arr2 = [1, 2, 3]
arr1.object_id == arr2.object_id      # => false

sym1 = :something
sym2 = :something
sym1.object_id == sym2.object_id      # => true

int1 = 5
int2 = 5
int1.object_id == int2.object_id      # => true
```

Notice anything different about how some of the objects in this example respond to the ` object_id ` method call?
- When comparing variables that have been initialized to the same symbol or integer, the method call is returning ` true ` .
	- This didn't occur for strings and arrays.
	- This is because if two symbols or two integers have the same value, they are also the same object.
		- This is performance optimization in Ruby, because you can't modify a symbol or integer.
			- This is also why Rubyists prefer symbols over strings to act as hash keys: it's a slight performance optimization and saves on memory

#### The ` === ` method

Just like the ` == ` , the ` === ` looks like an operator, but it is in fact an instance method. 
- It's also used implicitly by ` case ` statements

Here's an example of using the ` === ` method. This example involves using it on a range:

```ruby
num = 25

case num
when 1..50
	puts "small number"
when 51..100
	puts "large number"
else
	puts "not in range"
end
```

The ` case ` statement is using the ` === ` method behind the scenes to compare each ` when ` clause with ` num `. In this example, the ` when ` clauses contain only ranges, so ` Range#=== ` is used or each clause.
- Typically don't have to define our own ` === ` behavior, as you likely wouldn't use your custom classes in a ` case  ` statement. It's sometimes useful to remember that ` ===` is used for comparison in ` case ` statements.

Using this example, we can visualize how the ` case ` statement uses ` === ` , consider the following interpretation using an ` if ` statement:

```ruby
num = 25

if (1..50) === num
	puts "small number"
elsif (51..100) === num
	puts "large number"
else
	puts "not in range"
end
```

The ` === ` method is called on a range and passes in the argument ` num ` .
- ` === ` doesn't compare two objects the way ` == ` does.
	- In the context of this example, it's essentially asking "if ` (1..50) ` is a group, does ` 25 ` belong in that group?". In this case the answer is "yes".

Let's look at another example:

```ruby
String === "hello"  # => true
String === 15       # => false
```

` true ` is returned on line 1 because ` "hello" ` is an instance of ` String ` , even though ` "hello" ` doesn't equal ` String ` .

` false ` is returned on line 2 because ` 15 ` is NOT an instance of ` String `, it's an instance of ` Integer ` .


#### The ` eql? ` method

The ` #eql? ` method determines if two objects contain the same value and if they're of the same class. This is used most often by ` Hash ` to determine equality among it's members.

#### Summary

Most important points to remember:

` == ` 


- For most objects, the ` == ` operator compares the values of the objects and is frequently used
- It's actually a method, and is available to most built-in Ruby classes, which each of them providing their own method to specify how to compare the objects of those classes.
- By default, ` BasicObject#== ` does not perform an equality check; it instead returns ` true ` if two objects are the same object. This is why other classes often provide their own behavior for this method.
- If you need to compare custom objects, you should define the ` == ` method.
- Understanding ow this method works is the most important part of this assignment.

Less Important

` equal? `

- The ` equal? ` method goes on level deeper and determines whether two variables not only have the same value, but also whether they point to the same object.
- Do not define ` equal? ` 
- This method is not used very often
- Calling ` object_id ` on a method will return the object's unique numerical value and has the same effect as comparing them with ` equal? ` .

` === ` 

- Use implicitly in ` case ` statements
- Is actually an instance method
- You rarely need to call this method explicitly and only need to implement it in your custom classes if you anticipate your objects will be used in ` case ` statements, which is probably rare.

` eql? ` 

- Used implicitly by ` Hash ` 
- Very rarely used explicitly