#### Instance Variable Scope

Recall that instance variables start with an ` @ ` and are scoped at the object level. 

What are they used for?
- Tracking individual object state
- They do not cross over between objects of the same class

Let's look at an example. We can use the ` @name ` variable to separate the state of ` Person ` objects.

```ruby
class Person
	def initialize(n)
		@name = n
	end
end

bob = Person.new("bob")
joe = Person.new("joe")

puts bob.inspect          # => #<Person:0x007f9c830e5f70 @name="bob">
puts joe.inspect          # => #<Person:0x007f9c830e5f20 @name="joe">
```

Because the scope of the instance variable is at the object level, the variable is accessible in an object's instance methods, even if it is initialized outside of that method.

```ruby
class Person
	def initialize(n)
		@name = n
	end

	def get_name
		@name # this is the instance variable
	end
end

bob = Person.new("bob")
bob.get_name   # => "bob"
```

Unlike local variables, instance variables are accessible within an instance method even if they are not initialized within the method or passed into the method.
- Again, remember that they are scoped at the *object level*

But, what happens if we try to access an instance variable that is not yet initialized?

```ruby
class Person
	def get_name
		@name
	end
end

bob = Person.new
bob.get_name   # => nil
```

This is another distinction from local variables.
- If you try to reference an uninitialized local variable, you'd get a ` NameError ` . When you try to do the same with an instance variable, you get ` nil ` .

What happens if you put an instance variable at the class level?

```ruby
class Person
	@name = "bob"

	def get_name
		@name
	end
end

bob = Person.new
bob.get_name     # => nil
```

Instance variables initialized at the class level are an entirely different thing called *class instance variables*. 
- Don't need to worry about these yet, just remember to initialize instance variables within instance methods

#### Class Variable Scope

Class variables start with an ` @@ `  and are scoped at the class level.

What behaviors do class variables have? 

There are two main behaviors:

1. All objects share 1 copy of the class variable. This implies objects can access class variables by way of instance methods.
2. Class methods can access class variables provided the class variable has been initialized prior to calling the method.

Example:

```ruby
class Person
	@@total_people = 0       # initializd at the class level

	def self.total_people
		@@total_people       # accessible from the class method
	end

	def initialize
		@@total_people += 1  # reassigned from within instance method
	end

	def total_people
		@@total_people       # accessible from instance method
	end
end

Person.total_people # => 0
Person.new
Person.new
Person.total_people # => 2

bob = Person.new
bob.total_people    # => 3

joe = Person.new
joe.total_people    # => 4

Person.total_people # => 4
```

With this example, we can see that even though we have multiple instances of the ` Person ` class, we're still referencing the same ` @@total_people ` class variable.
- We're effectively accessing and modifying one copy of the ` @@total_people ` class variable.
	- This cannot be done with instance variables or local variables; only class variables can share state between objects (ignoring globals)

#### Constant Variable Scope

Constant variables are not supposed to be re-assigned.
- Ruby will warn you about this, but will not throw an error when if you do re-assign a constant

Two important things to note about consants:
- They begin with a capital letter and have ***lexical scope***.

What does lexical scope mean?
- **Lexical scope** means that where the constant is defined in the source code, determines where it's available.
- When Ruby tries to resolve a constant, it searches lexically -- that is, it searches the surrounding structure (ie, lexical scope) of the constant reference

Here's an example:

```ruby
class Person
	GREETINGS = ['Hello', 'Hi', 'Hey']

	def self.greetings
		GREETINGS.join(', ')
	end

	def greet
		GREETINGS.sample
	end
end

puts Person.greetings    # => "Hello, Hi, Hey"
puts Person.greet        # => "Hi" (output may vary)
```

Within one class, the rules for accessing constants are easy.
- When Ruby encounters the name ` GREETINGS ` on line 5 and line 9, it searches the surrounding source code.
- ` GREETINGS ` is initialized on line 2 within the ` Person ` class, it is accessible in both the ` Person::greetings ` class method and the ` Person#greet ` instance method.

Let's modify this example, and have the ` Person ` class exist in an ` ElizabethanEra ` module for namespacing purposes.

```ruby
module ElizabethanEra

	GREETINGS = ['How dost thou', 'Bless thee', 'Good morrow']

	class Person
		def self.greetings
			GREETINGS.join(', ')
		end

		def greet
			GREETINGS.sample
		end
	end
end

puts ElizabethanEra::Person.greetings    # => "How dost thou, Bless thee, Good morrow"
puts ElizabethanEra::Person.new.greet    # => "Bless thee" (output may vary)
```

` GREETINGS ` can still be resolved in both methods because it is available lexically.

What happens if we try to reference a constant from an unconnected class?
- A ` NameError ` is thrown, as the class is not part of the lexical search, and not included in the constant lookup path.

```ruby
class Computer
  GREETINGS = ["Beep", "Boop"]
end

class Person
  def self.greetings
    GREETINGS.join(', ')
  end

  def greet
    GREETINGS.sample
  end
end

puts Person.greetings # => NameError
puts Person.new.greet # => NameError
```

However, unlike class or instance variables, we can reach into the ` Computer ` class and reference the ` GREETINGS ` constant.
- To do this, we have to tell Ruby where to search for the ` GREETINGS ` constant using the namespace resolution operator ` :: ` .

```ruby
class Person
	def self.greetings
		Computer::GREETINGS.join(', ')
	end

	def greet
		Computer::GREETINGS.sample
	end
end
```

This allows us to access the ` GREETINGS ` constant within the ` Computer ` class, even though the classes are not connected. 