
#### Instance Variables

How does inheritance affect instance variables?

Let's look at an example:

```ruby
class Animal
	def initialize(name)
		@name = name
	end
end

class Dog < Animal
	def dog_name
		"bark! bark! #{@name} bark! bark!"   # can @name be refernced here?
	end
end

teddy = Dog.new("Teddy")
puts teddy.dog_name     # "bark! bark! Teddy bark! bark!"
```

It appears that subclasses of a superclass have access to the instance variables that have been initialized in the superclass.
- Since the ` Dog ` class doesn't have an ` initialize ` instance method, it looks up the chain into the parent class ` Animal ` for it. 
	- This is where the ` @name ` instance variable was initialized, and that's why we can access it from ` teddy.dog_name ` .

What happens when we have an ` initialize ` method within the ` Dog ` class, but he method doesn't initialize a ` @name ` instance variable?

```ruby
class Animal
	def initialize(name)
		@name = name
	end
end

class Dog
	def initialize(name); end

	def dog_name
		"bark! bark! #{@name} bark! bark!" # can name still be referenced?
	end
end

teddy = Dog.new("Teddy")
puts teddy.dog_name   # "bark! bark!  bark! bark!"
```

The instance variable was unable to be accessed. Why?
- In this example ` @name ` is ` nil ` because the instance variable has yet to be initialized.
	- Because we have an ` initialize ` method within the ` Dog ` class, Ruby does not need to search further up the chain and instead looks within the ` Dog ` class for the ` @name ` instance variable.
		- ` Animal#initialize ` doesn't get executed

What about mixing in modules? How does that affect instance variables?

```ruby
module Swim
	def enable_swimming
		@can_swim = true
	end
end

class Dog
	include Swim

	def swim
		"swimming!" if @can_swim
	end
end

teddy = Dog.new
teddy.swim       # => nil
```

What happened?
- Since we didn't invoke the ` Swim#enable_swimming ` method, the ` @can_swim ` instance variable was never initialized. Assuming the same module and class from above, we need to do the following:

```ruby
teddy = Dog.new
teddy.enable_swimming
teddy.swim               # => "swimming!"
```

From the above example, we can see that instance variables don't exhibit any surprising behaviors.
- They behave similarly to how instance methods would, with the exception that we must first call the method that initializes the instance variable.
	- Once this is done, the instance can access the instance variable
		- This suggests that instance variables and their values are not inherited


#### Class Variables

What about class variables? Are these available to subclasses?

```ruby
class Animal
	@@total_animals = 0

	def initialize
		@@total_animals += 1
	end
end

class Dog < Animal
	def total_animals
		@@total_animals
	end
end

spike = Dog.new
spike.total_animals    # => 1
```

From this example, we can see that class variables are available to subclasses.
- Side note: since this class variable is initialized in the ` Animal ` class, there is no method to explicitly invoke to initialize it.
	- The class variable is loaded when the class is evaluated in Ruby
	- If the class variable `@@total_animals ` was not initialized within the ` Animal ` class, there would be no way to initialize it using the ` Dog ` class.

There is one potentially big problem. When working with class variables within the context of inheritance, we need to remember there is only one copy of the class variable across all sub-classes.

```ruby
class Vehicle
	@@wheels = 4

	def.self.wheels
		@@wheels
	end
end

Vehicle.wheels      # => 4
```

Here we define a class ` Vehicle ` , and initialize the class variable ` @@wheels ` to the integer  ` 4 `. We then define a class method ` self.wheels ` that exposes and returns the value of the class variable. 

Let's add a subclass that initializes it's own class variable ` @@wheels ` .

```ruby
class Motorcycle < Vehicle
	@@wheels = 2
end

Motorcycle.wheels   # => 2
Vehicle.wheels      # => 2
```

The instance method ` wheels ` now returns 2 when called on both objects -- ` Vehicle ` and ` Motorcycle ` . Why?
- Remember that only one copy of a class variable is available to the class and all it's subclasses. So instead of creating a second class variable for ` Motorcycle ` , it is instead reassigning ` @@wheels ` to the integer ` 2 ` .

```ruby
class Car < Vehicle
end

Car.wheels # => 2
```

Again, the class method ` wheels ` returns 2. 

If we're writing a new class called ` Car ` , it would be natural to look at what we can inherit from the ` Vehicle ` super-class. We'd notice the ` @@wheels = 4 ` in the ` Vehicle ` superclass, and assume that the class variable can be inherited by our ` Car ` subclass. 
- For this reason, it's a good idea to avoid using class variables when working with inheritance.
	- Some Rubyists might suggest avoid using class variables altogether.
	- The solution is to usually use *class instance variables*.

#### Constants

Recall from the previous assignment, how does Ruby attempt to resolve a constant variable?
- By searching in the lexical scope of that reference
	- If unsuccessful, it will look up through the inheritance hierarchy *of the structure that references the constant*.
		- What does this mean? Example below:

```ruby
module FourWheeler
	WHEELS = 4
end

class Vehicle
	def maintenance
		"Changing #{WHEELS} tires."
	end
end

class Car < Vehicle
	include FourWheeler

	def wheels
		WHEELS
	end
end

car = Car.new
puts car.wheels  # => 4
puts car.maintenance # => NameError: uninitialized constant
```

When we invoke the ` wheels ` instance method (found within the ` Car ` class), Ruby will first search lexically.
- It will first search within the method definition, and then within the ` Car ` class, and if it does not find it there, will begin to search up through the inheritance chain.
	- Since it cannot be found within the ` Car ` class, it will look within the ` FourWheeler ` module, where it will find the constant ` WHEELS ` .

Next, we are trying to resolve the ` WHEELS ` constant when we call the ` maintenance ` instance method on ` car ` .
- Remember that ` maintenance ` is a ` Vehicle ` instance method, and ` Vehicle ` does not have the ` FourWheeler ` module mixed in.
	- Due to this, when Ruby searches lexically, it isn't searching within the ` Car ` class, even though it was an instance of ` Car ` that invoked the method. It's instead searching within the ` Vehicle ` class, and when it doesn't find it there, it will look in the ancestors of the class. 
	- Because it doesn't find the ` WHEELS ` constant within the ` Vehicle ` class or within any of its ancestors, an error is thrown.

There is one caveat to all of this: lexica scope doesn't include the main scope (ie, top level). Let's look at an example of this:

```ruby
class Vehicle
	WHEELS = 4
end

WHEELS = 6

class Car < Vehicle
	def wheels
		WHEELS
	end
end

car = Car.new
puts car.wheels    # => 4
```

Ruby will first attempt to resolve the ` WHEELS ` constant by searching the lexical scope up to (but not including) the main scope.

Ruby then searches by inheritance where it finds the ` WHEELS ` constant in the ` Vehicle ` class, which is why ` 4 ` is output on line 14 when we invoke ` wheels ` on the ` car ` object. The top level scope is only searched *after* Ruby tries the inheritance hierarchy.

The full constant path looks like this:

Lexical scope of the reference > inheritance chain of the enclosing structure > top level

#### Summary

Instance variables
- Behave the way we'd expect, but we need to make sure they're initialized before we reference them

Class variables
- Allows subclasses to override superclass class variables. The change will affect all other subclasses of the superclass.

Constants
- Have lexical scope, meaning the position of the code determines where it is available.
- Ruby attempts to resolve a constant by searching lexically of the reference, then by inheritance chain of the enclosing class/module, and then the top level (main scope)

