
#### What is an Exception?

An exception is simply an *exceptional state* in your code.
- It's Ruby's way of letting you know that your code is behaving unexpectedly.
- If an exception is raised and your code does not handle the exception, your program will crash and Ruby will provide a message telling you what type of error was encountered.

```ruby
3 + "z"
# Program execution stops
# => String can't be coerced into Integer (TypeError)
```

Ruby provides a hierarchy of built-in classes to simplify exception handling.
- Exception names we see when our program classes (such as ` TypeError ` ) are class names.
- The class at the top of the hierarchy is the ` Exception ` class.
	- Has several subclasses, some of which have descendents of their own.

#### The Exception Class Hierarchy

```
Exception  
NoMemoryError  
ScriptError  
LoadError  
NotImplementedError  
SyntaxError  
SecurityError  
SignalException  
Interrupt  
StandardError  
ArgumentError  
UncaughtThrowError  
EncodingError  
FiberError  
IOError  
EOFError  
IndexError  
KeyError  
StopIteration  
LocalJumpError  
NameError  
NoMethodError  
RangeError  
FloatDomainError  
RegexpError  
RuntimeError  
SystemCallError  
Errno::*  
ThreadError  
TypeError  
ZeroDivisionError  
SystemExit  
SystemStackError  
fatal
```

Above is the complete hierarchy of Ruby's exception classes. 
- Good chance we have seen some of these exceptions raise in our own programs.

Have you ever pressed ` Ctrl + C ` to exit out of a program?
- This raises an exception via the ` Interrupt ` class.

A ` SyntaxError ` will be raised when Ruby tries to execute code containing invalid syntax.
- E.g. you mistakenly left a ` def ` or an ` end ` off of a method definition.

A ` SystemStackError ` is raised when in the case of a stack overflow.
- May have seen this when running a recursive infinite loop in our program.

A ` StandarError ` has many recognizable descendents -- ` ArgumentError ` , ` TypeError `, ` ZeroDivisionError ` , and ` NoMethodError ` are all common exceptions that are children or grandchildren of the ` StandardError ` class.

These are a couple of examples of where you might have already encountered an exception.

#### When Should You Handle an Exception?

Most often, the errors you want to handle are the descendents of the ` StandarError ` class.
- These may be caused by a wide variety of circumstances including unexpected user input, faulty type conversions or dividing by zero.
- Generally, it is relatively safe to handle these exceptions and continue running the program.

Why not just handle all of the exceptions?
- Can be very dangerous.
- Some exceptions are more serious than others.
	- There are some errors that we *should* allow to crash our program.
	- These would be important errors such as ` NoMemoryError ` , ` SyntaxError ` or ` LoadError ` . 
		- They must be addressed in order for our program to operate appropriately.
- Handling all exceptions may result in masking critical errors and can make debugging very difficult.

It is important to be intentional and very specific about which exceptions you want to handle and what action you want to take when you handle them.
- The action we choose when handling an exception will be dependent on the circumstances
	- E.g. logging the error, sending an email to an administrator, or displaying a message to the user.

#### How to Handle an Exceptional State

###### The ` begin/rescue ` Block

Using a ` begin/rescue ` block to handle errors can keep your program from crashing if the exception you have specified is raised

Example:

```ruby
begin
	# put code at risk of failing her
	rescue TypeErorr
	# take action
end
```

This will execute the code in the ` rescue ` clause rather than exiting the program if the code in line 2 raises a ` TypeError ` . 
- If no exception is raised, the ` rescue ` clause will not be executed at all and the program will continue to run normally. 
	- On line 3 the type of exception to rescue is specified.
		- If no type is specified, all ` StandardError ` exceptions will be rescued and handled.

Must remember to ***NOT*** tell Ruby to rescue ` Exception ` class exceptions.
- Reasons why are explained above.

It's possible to include multiple ` rescue ` clauses to handle different types of exceptions that may occur.

```ruby
begin
	# some code at risk of failing
rescue TypeError
	# take action
rescue ArgumentError
	# take a different action
end
```

We can also take the same action for more than one type of exception

```ruby
begin
	# some code at risk of failing
rescue ZeroDivisonError, TypeError
	# take action
end
```

#### Exception Objects and Built-In Methods

Exception objects are normal Ruby objects we can gain useful information from.
- Ruby provides built-in behaviors for these objects that we may want to use while handling the exception or debugging.

How do we use an exception object?

```ruby
rescue TypeError => e
```

This above syntax rescues any ` TypeError ` and stores the exception object in ` e `. 

Some useful instance methods that Ruby provides are ` Exception#message ` and ` Exception#backtrace ` , which return an error message and a backtrace associated with the exception, respectively.

Example:

```ruby
begin
	# code at risk of failing here
rescue StandardError => e #stornig the exception object in e
	puts e.message # output error message
end
```

This will rescue any type of ` StandardError ` exception and output the associated message with the exception object.
- Code like this can be useful when you are debugging and need to narrow down the type, or the cause of the error.
- You may always choose to be more specific about which type of exception to handle, but remember to never rescue the ` Exception ` class

Recall that exception objects are normal Ruby objects, and the different exception types (such as ` ArgumentError ` and ` NoMethodError ` ) are actually class names.
- When we call ` Object#class ` on an exception object, it will return it's class name

```ruby
e.class
# => TypeError
```

#### ` ensure ` 

You may also chose to include an ` ensure ` clause in your ` begin/rescue ` block after the last ` rescue ` clause.
- This branch will always execute, whether an exception was raised or not.

When would this be useful?
- Resource management would be a simple example

```ruby
file = open(file_name, 'w')

begin
	# do something with file
rescue
	# handle exception
rescue
	# handle a different exception
ensure
	file.close
	# executes every time
end
```

If there are multiple ` rescue ` clauses in the ` begin/rescue ` block, the ` ensure ` clause serves as a single exit point for the block and allows you to put all of your cleanup code in one place.

Important thing to remember:
- It is critical that this code does not raise an exception itself.
	- If it raises an exception, any exception raised earlier in the execution of the ` begin/rescue ` block will be masked
		- Can make debugging very difficult


#### ` retry ` 

This redirects your program to the back of the ` begin ` statement.
- Allows your program to make another attempt to execute the code that raised an exception.
	- May be useful when connecting to a remote server, for example.
	- If your code repeatedly fails, you risk ending up in an infinite loop. So it's a good idea to set a limit on the number of times you want ` retry ` to execute.
- ` retry ` must be called within the ` rescue ` block, as seen below:

```ruby
RETRY_LIMIT = 5

begin
	attempts = attempts || 0
	# do something
rescue
	attempts += 1
	retry if attempts < RETRY_LIMIT
end
```


#### Raising Exceptions Manually

Ruby gives you the power to manually raise exceptions yourself by calling ` Kernel#raise ` .
- This allows you to choose what type of exception to raise and even set your own error message. 
- If you do not specify what type of exception to raise, Ruby will default to ` RuntimeError ` (a subclass of ` StandardError ` ).
- There are a few different syntax options you may use, as seen below.

```ruby
raise TypeError.new("Something went wrong!")
raise TypeError, "Something went wrong!"
```


In the next example, the exception type will default to a ` RuntimeError ` because no other is specified. 
- The error message specified is "invalid age".

```ruby
def validate_age(age)
	raise("invalid age") unless (0...105).include?(age)
end
```

Exceptions we raise manually can be handled in the same manner as exceptions Ruby raises automatically.

```ruby
begin
	validate_age(age)
rescue RuntimeError => e
	puts e.message # => "invalid age"
end
```

Here we placed the ` validate_age ` method in a ` begin/rescue ` block. If an invalid age is passed in to the method, a ` RuntimeError ` with the error message "invalid age" will be raised.
- The ` rescue ` clause will the be executed


#### Raising Custom Exceptions

Ruby also allows us the flexibility to create our own custom exception classes.

```ruby
class ValidateAgeError < StandardError; end
```

We've created our own ` ValidateAgeError ` that subclasses from the ` StandardError ` class.
- The ` ValidateAgeError ` class has access to all of the built-in exception object behaviors Ruby provides.
- Again, avoid masking exceptions from the ` Exception ` class itself and other system-level exception classes.
	- Concealing these exceptions is dangerous and will suppress very serious problems in your program
	- Most often you will want to inherit from ` StandardError ` 

When using a custom exception class, you can be specific about the error your program encountered by giving the class a very descriptive name.
- This may aid in debugging

Example:

```ruby
def validate_age(age)
	raise ValidateError, "invalid age" unless (0..105).include?(age)
end

begin
	validate_age(age)
rescue ValidateError => e
	 # take action
end
```

As demonstrated here, you can raise and handle custom exceptions just like any built-in exception that Ruby provides.